---
external help file: Microsoft.Azure.PowerShell.Cmdlets.Accounts.dll-Help.xml
Module Name: Az.Accounts
online version: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.accounts/enable-azcontextautosave
schema: 2.0.0
---

# Enable-AzContextAutosave

## SYNOPSIS
Azure contexts are PowerShell objects representing your active subscription to run commands against, and the authentication information needed to connect to an Azure cloud. With Azure contexts, Azure PowerShell doesn't need to reauthenticate your account each time you switch subscriptions. More information about context can be found in the [Azure PowerShell context objects](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/azure/context-persistence) page.

This cmdlet allows the Azure context information to be saved and automatically loaded when a PowerShell process starts (for example when opening a new window).

## SYNTAX

```
Enable-AzContextAutosave [-Scope <ContextModificationScope>] [-DefaultProfile <IAzureContextContainer>]
 [-WhatIf] [-Confirm] [<CommonParameters>]
```

## DESCRIPTION
Allow the azure context information to be saved and automatically loaded when a PowerShell process starts. The context is saved at the end of the execution of any cmdlet that affects the context (any profile cmdlet).  If you are using user authentication, then tokens can be updated durign the course of runnign any cmdlet.

## EXAMPLES

### Example 1: Enable autosaving credentials for the current user
```powershell
PS C:\> Enable-AzContextAutosave
```

Turn on credential autosave for the current user.  Whenever a powershell window is opened, your current context will be remembered without logging in.

### Example 2

Allow the azure credential, account and subscription information to be saved and automatically loaded when you open a PowerShell window in this powershell session. (autogenerated)

```powershell <!-- Aladdin Generated Example --> 
Enable-AzContextAutosave -Scope Process
```

## PARAMETERS

### -DefaultProfile
The credentials, tenant and subscription used for communication with azure

```yaml
Type: Microsoft.Azure.Commands.Common.Authentication.Abstractions.Core.IAzureContextContainer
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: AzContext, AzureRmContext, AzureCredential

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Scope
Determines the scope of context changes for example, whether changes apply only to the current process, or to all sessions started by this user.
Changes made with the scope `CurrentUser` will affect all PowerShell sessions started by the user. If a particual session need to have settings different, use the scope `Process`.

```yaml
Type: Microsoft.Azure.Commands.Profile.Common.ContextModificationScope
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:
Accepted values: Process, CurrentUser

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: CurrentUser
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Confirm
Prompts you for confirmation before running the cmdlet.

```yaml
Type: System.Management.Automation.SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: cf

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -WhatIf
Shows what would happen if the cmdlet runs.
The cmdlet is not run.

```yaml
Type: System.Management.Automation.SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: wi

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### CommonParameters
This cmdlet supports the common parameters: -Debug, -ErrorAction, -ErrorVariable, -InformationAction, -InformationVariable, -OutVariable, -OutBuffer, -PipelineVariable, -Verbose, -WarningAction, and -WarningVariable. For more information, see about_CommonParameters (http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=113216).

## INPUTS

### None

## OUTPUTS

### Microsoft.Azure.Commands.Common.Authentication.ContextAutosaveSettings

## NOTES

## RELATED LINKS
