---
external help file: Microsoft.Azure.PowerShell.Cmdlets.Accounts.dll-Help.xml
Module Name: Az.Accounts
online version: https://docs.microsoft.com/powershell/module/az.accounts/enable-azcontextautosave
schema: 2.0.0
---

# Enable-AzContextAutosave

## SYNOPSIS
Azure contexts are PowerShell objects representing your active subscription to run commands against,
and the authentication information needed to connect to an Azure cloud. With Azure contexts, Azure
PowerShell doesn't need to reauthenticate your account each time you switch subscriptions. For more
information, see [Azure PowerShell context objects](https://docs.microsoft.com/powershell/azure/context-persistence).

This cmdlet allows the Azure context information to be saved and automatically loaded when you start
a PowerShell process. For example, when opening a new window.

## SYNTAX

```
Enable-AzContextAutosave [-Scope <ContextModificationScope>] [-DefaultProfile <IAzureContextContainer>]
 [-WhatIf] [-Confirm] [<CommonParameters>]
```

## DESCRIPTION

Allows the Azure context information to be saved and automatically loaded when a PowerShell process
starts. The context is saved at the end of the execution of any cmdlet that affects the context. For
example, any profile cmdlet. If you're using user authentication, then tokens can be updated during
the course of running any cmdlet.

## EXAMPLES

### Example 1: Enable autosaving credentials for the current user

Turn on credential autosave for the current user. Whenever a PowerShell window is opened, your
current context is remembered without logging in.

```powershell
Enable-AzContextAutosave
```

### Example 2

Allow the Azure credential, account, and subscription information, to be saved and automatically
loaded when you open a PowerShell window in this PowerShell session. (autogenerated)

```powershell <!-- Aladdin Generated Example -->
Enable-AzContextAutosave -Scope Process
```

## PARAMETERS

### -DefaultProfile

The credentials, tenant, and subscription used for communication with Azure

```yaml
Type: Microsoft.Azure.Commands.Common.Authentication.Abstractions.Core.IAzureContextContainer
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: AzContext, AzureRmContext, AzureCredential

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Scope

Determines the scope of context changes. For example, whether changes apply only to the current
process, or to all sessions started by this user. Changes made with the scope `CurrentUser` will
affect all PowerShell sessions started by the user. If a particular session needs to have different
settings, use the scope `Process`.

```yaml
Type: Microsoft.Azure.Commands.Profile.Common.ContextModificationScope
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:
Accepted values: Process, CurrentUser

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: CurrentUser
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Confirm

Prompts you for confirmation before running the cmdlet.

```yaml
Type: System.Management.Automation.SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: cf

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -WhatIf

Shows what would happen if the cmdlet runs.
The cmdlet isn't run.

```yaml
Type: System.Management.Automation.SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: wi

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### CommonParameters
This cmdlet supports the common parameters: -Debug, -ErrorAction, -ErrorVariable, -InformationAction, -InformationVariable, -OutVariable, -OutBuffer, -PipelineVariable, -Verbose, -WarningAction, and -WarningVariable. For more information, see [about_CommonParameters](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=113216).

## INPUTS

### None

## OUTPUTS

### Microsoft.Azure.Commands.Common.Authentication.ContextAutosaveSettings

## NOTES

## RELATED LINKS
